# How to compute RNA structural properties?

We will go through from: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1403.4180

"To characterize the structure of the oxRNA duplex, we simulate a 13-base-pair duplex at 25 ◦C using Monte Carlo simulation. We generated 30 000 decorrelated configurations that were analyzed in the following manner"
- We did this with RNA + RNA2 with VMMC, and also with RNA2 with MD

"The helical axis was fitted for each saved configuration, as described in Supplementary Material A1."
- so, the helical axis was fitted for *each* saved configuration

**Rise**: "The rise per base pair was measured as the distance between the projections of the midpoints of base pairs onto the helical axis."
- ok. but in `lp_rkk.py`, it seems to use the stack sites rather than the base sites? Should compare with `geom.py`
- in `geom.py`, there seem to be two options -- one that uses a local helical axis per bp, another that uses the helical axis for the entire strand. Only the latter seems to give results that agree. What explains the difference?
- rise should be 0.28 nm with a length scale of 0.84 nm per oxRNA length
- how many bp's are ignored / what's the offset?

**Twist**: "The twist per base pair was measured as the angle between the projections of the vectors connecting bases in the base pairs onto the plane perpendicular to the helical axis."
- mean turn per base pair should  be 33 deg
- how many bp's are ignored / what's the offset?
- corresponds to a pitch of 10.9 bp

**Inclination**: "The inclination, measured as the mean angle between the vector pointing from the center of mass of a nucleotide to its base and the plane perpendicular to the helical axis"
- should be 16.1 deg
- same question about offset

**Helical Width**: "The width of the helix is measured as twice the distance of the backbone from the axis, and includes the excluded volume interaction radius of the backbone site"
- should be 2.5 nm

**Groove Widths**: "The major and minor grooves in oxRNA are 0.48 nm and 1.07 nm, respectively, where we measured the groove distances in a manner analogous to a method employed by the Curves+ software for analyzing atomistic structures of DNA and RNA. For a selected nucleotide, we measured distances between its backbone site and points on a curve that was linearly interpolated through the backbone sites of the nucleotides on the opposite strand. The distances measured along the curve have two minima, one for each groove. The excluded volume interaction radius for each backbone site was subtracted from these measured distances."
- major 0.48 nm, minor 1.07 nm
- same question applies again



# Ways we've been computing them so far

python3 -m jax_dna.loss.rna.rise

python rna-lp/lp_rkk.py ../jax-dna-dev/data/templates/rna2-13bp-md/output.dat ../jax-dna-dev/data/templates/rna2-13bp-md/sys.top 1 1 rna2.txt


These two give comparable numbers. I also think this is where I originally got the implementation of rise...
